>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER, 28:
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAYS
AMERICA MIGHT HAVE NO CHOICE BUT
TO SEND GROUND TROOPS TO FIGHT
ISIS.
INDIA'S NEW PRIME MINISTER IS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
WHAT'S NEXT FOR U.S./INDIA
RELATIONS?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT:
JEFF GREENFIELD REPORTS FROM
KANSAS ON THE RACE THAT WILL
HELP DETERMINE WHICH PARTY
CONTROLS THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
>> SO IF SOMEONE HAD TOLD YOU,
UP TILL SAY EIGHT MONTHS AGO,
THAT YOU WOULD BE SEEING THE
RACE FOR BOTH SENATOR AND
GOVERNOR DEVELOP THE WAY IT HAS,
WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE TOLD THEM?
>> THAT THEY'RE SMOKING
SOMETHING THAT'S LEGAL IN
COLORADO BUT NOT IN KANSAS.
>> Stewart: NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING, THANKS
FOR JOINING US.
I'M ALISON STEWART.
HARI SREENIVASAN IS OFF.
THE UNITED STATES AND ITS ALLIES
TOOK NEW STEPS TODAY TO TRY TO
LIMIT THE ISLAMIC STATE'S
ABILITY TO FUND ITSELF,
REPORTEDLY CARRYING OUT AIR
STRIKES AGAINST REFINERIES THAT
THE JIHADISTS CONTROL IN
NORTHEASTERN SYRIA, NEAR THE
CITY OF RAQQA.
THIS, AS A TOP OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL APPEARED
ON THE SUNDAY TALK SHOWS TO
EXPLAIN THE ADMINISTRATION'S
APPROACH TOWARD DEFEATING THE
MILITANT ISLAMIC GROUP.
>> WHAT WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO IS
FALL INTO THE AL-QAEDA TRAP OF
SENDING HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF
AMERICANS BACK.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT THEY WANT.
THEY WANT TO BOG US DOWN, TIE US
DOWN, AND BLEED US.
WE'RE GOING TO BE SMARTER.
>> Stewart: BUT HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER INSISTED TODAY THAT
AIR POWER ALONE COULD NOT DEFEAT
THESE EXTREMISTS.
>> IF NOBODY ELSE WILL STEP UP,
WOULD YOU RECOMMEND PUTTING
AMERICAN BOOTS ON THE GROUND?
>> WE HAVE NO CHOICE.
THESE ARE BARBARIANS.
THEY INTEND TO KILL US, AND IF
WE DON'T DESTROY THEM FIRST,
WE'RE GONNA PAY THE PRICE.
>> Stewart: ACCORDING TO A NEW
"WALL STREET JOURNAL"/NBC NEWS
AND ANNENBERG POLL, AMERICANS
OVERWHELMINGLY BELIEVE U.S.
GROUND TROOPS ULTIMATELY WILL BE
SENT TO TAKE ON ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS, A DECISION THEY WOULD
NOW SUPPORT BY A SLENDER MARGIN.
IRAN REPORTEDLY HAS DEVELOPED A
NEW CRUISE MISSILE SAID TO BE
ABLE TO HIT TARGETS MORE THAN
TWICE THE DISTANCE AS THE
PREVIOUS VERSION.
THIS, ACCORDING TO THE IRANIAN
NEWS AGENCY, "FARS."
THE NEW MISSILE, WITH A RANGE OF
APPROXIMATELY 435 MILES,
REPORTEDLY CAN BE FIRED FROM
GROUND LAUNCHERS OR FROM FIGHTER
JETS.
A TOP IRANIAN MILITARY OFFICIAL
HAILED THE DEVELOPMENT AS A
SIGNIFICANT BOOST TO IRAN'S
MILITARY DEFENSES.
AUTHORITIES IN HONG KONG ARE
CRACKING DOWN ON THE PRO-
DEMOCRACY DEMONSTRATIONS THAT
HAVE BEEN GOING ON FOR SEVERAL
DAYS NOW.
POLICE TODAY FIRED TEAR GAS ON
THOUSANDS OF PROTESTERS WHO HAD
GATHERED OUTSIDE THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE CITY
GOVERNMENT.
THE PROTESTS ARE OVER NEW RULES
THAT WOULD ALLOW THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT IN BEIJING TO SCREEN
ALL CANDIDATES HOPING TO LEAD
HONG KONG BEFORE THEIR NAMES CAN
APPEAR ON THE BALLOT.
THE VOLCANO THAT ERUPTED WITHOUT
WARNING IN JAPAN YESTERDAY, WAS
FAR MORE DEADLY THAN ORIGINALLY
THOUGHT.
DESPITE RESCUE EFFORTS,
AUTHORITIES NOW SAY 31 PEOPLE
ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN
KILLED.
THE DEATH TOLL HAD BEEN PUT AT
SEVEN YESTERDAY.
THE VOLCANO WAS STILL ERUPTING
TODAY, POURING SMOKE AND ASH
INTO THE SKY.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
AUTHORITIES IN FERGUSON MISSOURI
ARE INVESTIGATING THE SHOOTING
OF A POLICE OFFICER LAST NIGHT.
THE OFFICER REPORTEDLY WAS
CHASING TWO SUSPECTS WHEN ONE OF
THE MEN TURNED AROUND AND SHOT
HIM IN THE ARM.
THE OFFICER RETURNED FIRE, BUT
APPARENTLY DID NOT HIT EITHER OF
THE SUSPECTS.
THE INCIDENT IS NOT BELIEVED TO
BE CONNECTED TO THE RECENT
RACIAL UNREST IN THAT ST. LOUIS
SUBURB, UNREST SPARKED BY THE
FATAL SHOOTING OF A BLACK
TEENAGER BY A WHITE POLICE
OFFICER.
PROMISING MEDICAL NEWS TONIGHT.
WOMEN SUFFERING FROM METASTATIC
BREAST CANCER, WHO WERE GIVEN
THE ROCHE DRUG PERJETTA DURING
CLINICAL TRIALS, TYPICALLY
LIVED 16 MONTHS LONGER THAN
THOSE WHO DIDN'T GET THE DRUG.
THIS, ACCORDING TO DATA RELEASED
TODAY.
THE DRUG IS USED IN CONJUNCTION
WITH HERCEPTIN, ANOTHER ROCHE
DRUG THAT ALSO BLOCKS THE ACTION
OF A PROTEIN LINKED TO SOME
BREAST TUMORS.
TAKEN TOGETHER, THEY COST JUST
MORE THAN $11,000 A MONTH,
ACCORDING TO A COMPANY
SPOKESMAN.
IN THE AFTERMATH OF A MAJOR
SECURITY BREACH AT THE WHITE
HOUSE EARLIER THIS MONTH, WORD
OF ANOTHER INCIDENT THREE YEARS
AGO THAT REPORTEDLY ANGERED THE
PRESIDENT AND THE FIRST LADY.
IN AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED TODAY,
THE "WASHINGTON POST" SAID THE
SECRET SERVICE MISTAKENLY
CONCLUDED THAT GUNFIRE HEARD ON
NOVEMBER 11TH OF 2011 WAS NOT
AIMED AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
AGENTS STOOD DOWN, BUT IN FACT,
ONE OF THE BULLETS FIRED FROM A
SEMIAUTOMATIC RIFLE HAD SMASHED
A WINDOW STEPS FROM THE FIRST
FAMILY FORMAL LIVING ROOM.
THE PRESIDENT'S YOUNGER
DAUGHTER, SASHA, AND HIS MOTHER-
IN-LAW WERE HOME AT THE TIME.
THE DAMAGE TO THE BUILDING WAS
ONLY DISCOVERED FOUR DAYS LATER.
>> Stewart: DURING A SPEECH
ATTENDED BY THOUSANDS, TODAY, AT
MADISON SQUARE GARDEN IN NEW
YORK, THE NEW INDIAN PRIME
MINISTER, NARENDRA MODI,
PREDICTED THAT INDIA IS ENTERING
A NEW AGE OF ACHIEVEMENT.
HE MEETS WITH APPOINTMENT
TOMORROW.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE MAN AND HIS
PLANS WE ARE JOINED NOW BY
ALYSSA AYRES, A FELLOW AT THE
COUNCIL OF FORM RELATIONS.
>> THE INDIAN COMMUNITY'S
WELCOME RECEPTION FOR THE INDIAN
PRIME MINISTER.
THE ENTIRE ARENA WAS EXCITED.
THERE WAS A PENT UP EXCITEMENT
OF THE INDIAN AMERICAN
COMMUNITY, TO WELCOME HIM HERE
AS THE NEW INDIAN PRIME
MINISTER.
AND HEAR WHAT HE HAD TO SAY.
>> HE WAS ELECTED LAST SPRING IN
A LANDSLIDE.
TELL US WHY HE WAS ELECTED WITH
SUCH A DECISIVE VICTORY AND A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT HIM.
>> HE CAMPAIGNED VERY
SPECIFICALLY ON A CAMPAIGN OF
GOOD GOVERNMENT, PLAGUED BY
CORRUPTION SCANDALS SO THE GOOD
GOVERNANCE MESSAGE WAS A VERY
IMPORTANT ONE.
VOTERS WERE HEARING THAT AND
SAYING YOU KNOW WHAT?
LET'S VOTE FOR A CHANGE.
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY HIS MESSAGE
ON ECONOMIC GROWTH AT A TIME
WHEN INDIAN GROWTH RATES HAD
DIPPED BLOW 5% FROM PEAKS OF
AROUND 10%, IN 2010.
CITIZENS HEARD THE MODI MESSAGE,
THE PROMISE OF GREATER JOBS AND
OPPORTUNITIES.
I THINK THAT WAS THE SECRET OF
THE SUCCESS OF HIS PARTY.
>> THERE HAS BEEN A SERIES OF
IRRITATIONS BETWEEN THE INDIAN
GOVERNMENT AND THE UNITED STATES
OVER THE PAST FEW YEARS.
WHAT ARE THOSE IRRITATIONS AND
WHAT DO YOU THINK THE PRESIDENT
AND THE PRIME MINISTER WILL
DISCUSS BECAUSE OF THROWS?
>> IT CERTAINLY HAS BEEN
THOSE...
>> IT IS CERTAINLY THE CASE,
THAT WAS EXACERBATED BY THE FACT
THAT INDIAN GROWTH RATE SLOWED
WHICH MADE THE BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT A LOT MORE
CHALLENGING FOR A LOT OF
AMERICAN COMPANIES THAT HAD
PREVIOUSLY BEEN BIG CHAMPIONS OF
THE INDIAN STORY.
AREAS OF TRADE, AREAS WHERE WE
DON'T SEE EYE TO EYE, INDIA
RECENTLY DECIDED NOT TO RATIFY A
VERY IMPORTANT AGREEMENT REACHED
UNDER THE WTO, TRADE
FACILITATION AGREEMENT.
POSSIBILITY OF THE CIVIL NUCLEAR
INITIATIVE MOVE INTO A
COMMERCIAL OPERATION THAT'S
ANOTHER IRRITANT THAT'S BEEN OF
LONG STANDING.
>> AND FINALLY WHAT IS HIS
STANCE, HIS APPROACH TO
PAKISTAN?
>> HE HAS AN APPROACH TO
PAKISTAN THAT SEEMS PREMISED ON
THE IDEA THAT OUTREACH AND
COMMUNICATION CAN TRY TO HELP
BRIDGE THEIR DIVIDE VERY EARLY
ON.
THE PRIME MINISTER INVITED ALL
THE HEADS OF GOVERNMENT FROM THE
SURROUNDING COUNTRIES IN SOUTH
ASIA TO ATTEND HIS INAUGURATION.
BUT AMONG THE MEETINGS HE HELD
WITH HEADS OF GOVERNMENT, HIS
MEETING WITH NOAZ SHARIF HAS
BEEN PAID MOST INTEREST TO.
A PLANNED MEETING BETWEEN INDIAN
AND PAKISTANI FOREIGN
SECRETARIES WAS CANCELLED
BECAUSE THE PAKISTANI HIGH
COMMISSIONER HAD MET WITH
KASHMIRI SEPARATISTS.
A CALL FOR MORE DIALOGUE WITH
PAKISTAN BUT THIS IS VERY FIRM
THAT HAD CAN'T TAKE PLACE.
HE IS LOOKING MORE FOR PAKISTAN
DO MORE TO REIN IN THE ARE
THREAT OF TERRORISTS SO THEY ASK
NORMALIZE THEIR RELATIONS.
>> ALYSSA AYRES, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR HAVING US.
AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
OUR ORIGINAL IN DEPARTMENT
REPORTS
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND THE WORLD.
TONIGHT, THE MID-TERM ELECTIONS.
VOTERS ACROSS THE NATION GO TO
POLLS LESS THAN SIX WEEKS FROM
NOW, AND THE BIGGEST QUESTION
HEADING INTO ELECTION DAY IS
WHETHER THE G.O.P. WILL REGAIN
CONTROL OF THE UNITED STATES
SENATE.
ONE RACE THAT WILL HELP
DETERMINE THAT IS BEING FOUGHT
IN KANSAS, A RELIABLY REPUBLICAN
STATE WHERE THE STATE'S LONGTIME
REPUBLICAN SENATOR AND ITS
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR ARE BOTH,
PERHAPS UNEXPECTEDLY, IN
TROUBLE.
WHY?
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD TRAVELED THERE
RECENTLY AND HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: THIS IS WHAT YOU'LL
SEE JUST ABOUT ANY AUTUMN IN
KANSAS: FIELDS OF CORN THAT
AWAIT THE HARVEST, THE SEARCH
FOR FOOD AT A FARMER'S MARKET OR
AT OKLAHOMA JOE'S ALWAYS CROWED
BARBECUE.
AND THIS IS WHAT YOU'LL HEAR:
THE ROAR OF THE CROWDS AND THE
MOTORCYCLES AT A KANSAS STATE
FOOTBALL GAME.
BUT FOR ALL THAT IS FAMILIAR IN
THIS PLACE, IN THIS SEASON,
THERE IS ONE THING HAPPENING
HERE THAT IS ALMOST TOTALLY
UNPRECEDENTED, SOMETHING SO
SURPRISING, ALMOST SHOCKING,
THAT IT HAS REPUBLICANS FROM
MAINE TO HAWAII ASKING, "WHAT'S
THE MATTER WITH KANSAS?"
IN WHAT IS SURELY THE BIGGEST
SURPRISE OF THE 2014 MIDTERMS,
BOTH REPUBLICAN SENATOR PAT
ROBERTS AND REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR
SAM BROWNBACK FIND THEMSELVES IN
SERIOUS POLITICAL PERIL IN THIS
MOST REPUBLICAN OF STATES, TWO
RACES THAT WERE ON NO ONE'S
RADAR A FEW MONTHS AGO, ONE OF
WHICH MAY DECIDE WHO CONTROLS
THE UNITED STATES SENATE.
IT'S ENOUGH TO MAKE AN OBSERVER
LIKE THEKANSAS CITY STAR'SDAVE
HELLING, WHO'S COVERED POLITICS
FOR ALMOST 35 YEARS, TO FEEL AS
IF HE'S NOT IN KANSAS ANYMORE,
WHERE EVERY STATEWIDE OFFICIAL
AND EVERY MEMBER OF CONGRESS IS
REPUBLICAN.
SO IF SOMEONE HAD TOLD YOU UP
TILL SAY EIGHT MONTHS AGO THAT
YOU WOULD BE SEEING THE RACE FOR
BOTH SENATOR AND GOVERNOR
DEVELOP THE WAY IT HAS, WHAT
WOULD YOU HAVE TOLD THEM?
>> THAT THEY'RE SMOKING
SOMETHING THAT'S LEGAL IN
COLORADO BUT NOT IN KANSAS.
KANSAS MAY BE, JEFF, ONE OF THE
MOST REPUBLICAN STATES IN THE
COUNTRY.
SO I DON'T THINK ANYONE A YEAR
AGO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT AT ANY
LEVEL THAT EITHER SAM BROWNBACK
AND CERTAINLY PAT ROBERTS WOULD
BE IN ANY MAJOR TROUBLE.
THEY ARE.
>> Reporter: FOR THE 78-YEAR-OLD
ROBERTS, POLITICAL VULNERABILITY
IS AN UNWELCOME STRANGER.
FIRST ELECTED TO THE HOUSE 34
YEARS AGO, ROBERTS IS FINISHING
HIS THIRD TERM IN THE SENATE,
CONTINUING A STRING OF G.O.P.
VICTORIES THAT STRETCHES BACK TO
1938.
BUT ROBERTS HAS BEEN HIT BY THE
SAME CROSSWINDS THAT HAVE
BUFFETED OTHER VETERAN
REPUBLICANS: THE SENSE THAT HE'S
"GONE WASHINGTON."
IN FEBRUARY, THENEW YORK TIMES
REVEALED THAT ROBERTS HAS NO
HOME IN KANSAS, THAT HE RENTS
OUT A ROOM IN A SUPPORTER'S
HOUSE ON A GOLF COURSE AND HAS
RARELY BEEN SEEN BACK IN THE
STATE.
AND ROBERTS IS FIGHTING ANOTHER
PERCEPTION: THAT HE'S TOO MUCH
PART OF THE SYSTEM, A SYMBOL OF
THE OLDER ORDER, AND OUT OF STEP
WITH TEA PARTY CONSERVATIVES,
SOMETHING THAT MAY BE REFLECTED
BY HOW HE DESCRIBES HIMSELF.
>> PEOPLE USED TO ASK ME ALL THE
TIME WHAT KIND OF REPUBLICAN I
WAS, I'M JUST A REPUBLICAN.
BUT I WOULD SAY PROBABLY AN
EISENHOWER REPUBLICAN.
I KNOW BOB DOLE.
HE'S A VERY DEAR FRIEND.
HE JUST CUT AN AD FOR ME.
SO I'M A BOB DOLE REPUBLICAN.
BUT I'M ALSO THE FOURTH MOST
CONSERVATIVE SENATOR IN THE
SENATE.
>> Reporter: THIS AUGUST,
ROBERTS NARROWLY SURVIVED A
PRIMARY AGAINST A TEA PARTY
OPPONENT.
UNTIL A FEW WEEKS AGO, ROBERTS'
BEST ASSET MAY HAVE BEEN THE
DIVIDED OPPOSITION.
HE FACED BOTH A DEMOCRAT AND AN
INDEPENDENT.
THEN, DEMOCRAT CHAD TAYLOR
DROPPED OUT OF THE RACE, LEAVING
ROBERTS TO FACE 45-YEAR-OLD GREG
ORMAN, A BUSINESSMAN AND CO-
FOUNDER OF A PRIVATE EQUITY FIRM
WITH THE WEALTH TO FUND HIS OWN
CAMPAIGN.
HE ALSO HAS A PAST THAT INCLUDES
MEMBERSHIP IN BOTH MAJOR
POLITICAL PARTIES, BOTH OF WHICH
HE NOW DISAVOWS.
>> BOTH PARTIES TAKE EXTREME
POSITIONS.
YOU KNOW THE WAY HARRY REID IS
RUNNING THE SENATE, HE'S RUNNING
THE SENATE LIKE A DICTATORSHIP.
HE'S NOT ALLOWING COMPROMISE,
HE'S NOT ALLOWING DEBATE.
AND WE'VE GOT THE SAME PROBLEM
IN THE HOUSE WITH THE
REPUBLICANS SO I THINK BOTH
PARTIES ARE REALLY TO BLAME FOR
THE DYSFUNCTION THAT WE HAVE IN
WASHINGTON TODAY.
>> Reporter: THE RACE HAS DRAWN
INTENSE NATIONAL ATTENTION
BECAUSE OF SIMPLE ARITHMETIC:
WITH REPUBLICANS NEEDING SIX
SEATS TO TAKE THE SENATE, A
ROBERTS LOSS WOULD MAKE THAT
NUMBER MUCH TOUGHER TO REACH.
THAT, ORMAN SAYS, WOULD GIVE HIM
A LOT OF LEVERAGE SHOULD HE BE
ELECTED.
PERHAPS TO CAPITALIZE ON THAT,
ORMAN IS NOT SAYING WHICH PARTY
HE'D ALIGN HIMSELF WITH, OR, AS
THEY SAY IN WASHINGTON, CAUCUS.
IT FALLS UPON YOU, MR. ORMAN, TO
DECIDE WHO GOVERNS THE SENATE
FOR THE NEXT TWO YEARS.
THAT'S A DECISION YOU WILL HAVE
TO MAKE.
ARE THE VOTERS OF KANSAS
ENTITLED TO KNOW BEFORE THEY
VOTE FOR YOU WHAT THAT DECISION
IS?
>> WE WILL CAUCUS WITH WHICHEVER
PARTIES WILL BE WILLING TO
PROMOTE A PRO-PROBLEM-SOLVING
NONPARTISAN AGENDA.
AND IF THEY'RE NOT WILLING TO DO
THAT THEN WE'RE NOT GOING TO
WORK WITH THEM.
>> Reporter: IF THE SENATE RACE
HERE HAS NATIONAL IMPLICATIONS,
THE GOVERNOR'S RACE SEEMS TO
ILLUSTRATE AN OLD POLITICAL
ADAGE, THAT ALL OR AT LEAST A
LOT OF POLITICS IS LOCAL.
GOVERNOR BROWNBACK'S PROBLEM
STEMS NOT FROM DEMOCRATS BUT
OVERWHELMINGLY FROM KANSAS
REPUBLICANS, WHO ARE A SPECIAL
BREED.
THE 58-YEAR-OLD BROWNBACK WAS
ELECTED GOVERNOR FOUR YEARS AGO,
AFTER TWO TERMS IN THE U.S.
SENATE.
HE BROUGHT WITH HIM A STRONGLY
CONSERVATIVE AGENDA, BOTH ON
SOCIAL ISSUES LIKE ABORTION AND
WITH HISTORICALLY LARGE TAX
CUTS, AN EXPERIMENT, BROWNBACK
SAID, IN SUPPLY-SIDE ECONOMICS.
FOR NATIONAL REPUBLICANS, TAX-
CUTS ARE AN UNALLOYED GOOD.
BUT KANSAS REPUBLICANS?
WELL...
>> THEY LIKE THEIR SENATORS TO
HAVE A STRONG REPUBLICAN POINT
OF VIEW.
THE DEMANDS OF BEING GOVERNOR
ARE QUITE DIFFERENT.
AND WHEN HE CAME BACK, HE SORT
OF PURSUED WHAT WAS VERY, VERY
OBVIOUSLY A STRONGLY
CONSERVATIVE AGENDA.
>> Reporter: WHEN THOSE CUTS
OPENED UP A PROJECTED BUDGET
SHORTFALL OF HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND
THREATENED THE LEVEL OF SCHOOL
FUNDING, THAT UNSETTLED MODERATE
KANSAS REPUBLICANS AND WIDENED A
RIFT BETWEEN THEM AND
CONSERVATIVES THAT HAD BEEN
AROUND FOR YEARS.
TWO YEARS AGO, BROWNBACK LED
SUCCESSFUL PRIMARY CAMPAIGNS
AGAINST MODERATE LEGISLATORS.
BUT THIS PAST JULY, THOSE
REPUBLICANS RETALIATED AGAINST
BROWNBACK BY JOINING 100 FELLOW
REPUBLICANS IN ENDORSING THE
DEMOCRATIC OPPONENT, STATE
LEGISLATOR PAUL DAVIS.
DAVIS HAS SEIZED ON BROWNBACK'S
EXPERIMENT LABEL.
IS THIS A STATE THAT ISN'T
PARTICULARLY FOND OF EXPERIMENTS
IN POLITICS?
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY YES.
IT IS DEFINITELY A STATE THAT IS
NOT PARTICULARLY FOND OF
EXPERIMENTS.
THEY DON'T WANT A GOVERNOR WHO'S
GOING TO TURN THEIR STATE INTO A
SCIENCE LABORATORY.
>> PEOPLE, I DON'T THINK THEY
DON'T LIKE CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK THEY TRUST CHANGE.
SO I CAME OUT HERE AND SAID,
"LOOK WE HAVEN'T BEEN GROWING.
WE'VE GOT TO GET OUR TAX RATES
DOWN SO WE CAN GROW."
>> Reporter: AND ABOUT THAT
EXPERIMENT WORD?
>> YEAH, I SHOULDN'T HAVE USED
THAT WORD.
BUT THE GOOD NEWS IS IT'S
WORKING WELL.
WE'RE GROWING.
WE'VE GOT RECORD EMPLOYMENT IN
KANSAS.
>> Reporter: THEN, AFTER A BRIEF
DISCUSSION WITH AN AIDE...
>> Reporter: THE THINGS WE'RE
DOING ARE NOT ANYTHING NEW.
GOING TO... GETTING YOUR INCOMES
TAXES DOWN, WE GOT NINE STATES
WITHOUT AN INCOME TAX.
THAT'S NOT NEW.
SO NOTHING WE'RE DOING IS NEW.
NOW IT'S NEW THAT WE'RE DOING IT
BUT NOTHING THAT WE'RE DOING IS
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT'S DONE
BEFORE.
>> Reporter: THE RACE FOR
SENATOR AND THE RACE FOR
GOVERNOR OBVIOUSLY HAVE
DIFFERENT DYNAMICS, BUT HERE'S
WHAT THEY HAVE IN COMMON: THE
POLITICAL SURVIVAL OF SENATOR
ROBERTS AND GOVERNOR BROWNBACK
DEPENDS ON THEIR ABILITY TO
DEFINE THEIR OPPONENTS WITH
EXACTLY THE SAME LABEL.
>> JUST ANOTHER VOTE FOR BARACK
OBAMA.
>> DAVIS, DON'T DELEGATE KANSAS
TO AN OBAMA LIBERAL.
>> LIKE OBAMA, GREG ORMAN WILL
SAY ANYTHING TO
>> HE IS A LIBERAL DEMOCRAT AND
THAT'S WHY YOU HAVE JEB BUSH,
AND YOU HAVE JOHN McCAIN, YOU
HAVE RAND PAUL... YOU GOT ABOUT
EVERYBODY IN THE PARTY COMING--
CONSERVATIVE, I DON'T SAY
MODERATE-- REGULAR REPUBLICANS
KNOWING HOW IMPORTANT THIS RACE
IS BECAUSE THEY KNOW GREG IS A
LIBERAL DEMOCRAT.
AND WE DON'T NEED ANY MORE OF
THOSE FOLKS.
>> Reporter: IT'S A LABEL ORMAN
IS DETERMINED NOT TO WEAR.
>> THE KANSAS ELECTORATE IS VERY
COMPLEX.
THEY'RE ALSO VERY INDEPENDENT.
YOU LOOK AT PEOPLE LIKE ROSS
PEROT AND ROSS PEROT
SIGNIFICANTLY OUTPERFORMED IN
KANSAS.
>> Reporter: IN FACT,
INDEPENDENT PEROT GOT NEARLY 27%
OF THE KANSAS POPULAR VOTE WHEN
HE RAN FOR PRESIDENT IN 1992.
AND IF YOU ASK PAUL DAVIS IF
HE'S CAMPAIGNING WITH HIS FELLOW
DEMOCRATS, HIS ANSWER TELLS YOU
EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW
ABOUT HIS STRATEGY.
ARE THERE ANY NATIONAL DEMOCRATS
THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO CAMPAIGN
FOR YOU IN THE NEXT SEVERAL
WEEKS HERE IN KANSAS?
>> WELL I'M DOING SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
I'M ACTUALLY CAMPAIGNING WITH A
LOT OF REPUBLICANS.
YOU KNOW GOVERNOR BROWNBACK'S
BRINGING IN THE LIKES OF RICK
PERRY AND CHRIS CHRISTIE AND
WHAT I LIKE TO SAY IS HE'S OUT
CAMPAIGNING WITH REPUBLICAN FROM
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND I'M OUT
CAMPAIGNING WITH REPUBLICANS
FROM KANSAS.
>> Reporter: AS IN EVERY
CAMPAIGN, THE OUTCOME COULD
HINGE ON THE UNANTICIPATED.
JUST IN THE LAST WEEK, PAUL
DAVIS HAS HAD TO EXPLAIN HOW HE
WAS CAUGHT UP IN A POLICE RAID
AT A STRIP CLUB 16 YEARS AGO.
AND SOME REPUBLICANS HAVE BEGUN
TO HINT THAT SENATE CANDIDATE
ORMAN'S WALL STREET TIES MAY BE
AS BIG A PROBLEM FOR HIM AS THEY
WERE FOR MITT ROMNEY IN 2012.
BUT WHAT WE'RE ALREADY SEEING IS
THE UNANTICIPATED ON STEROIDS:
THE POSSIBILITY THAT AMERICA'S
REDDEST STATE MIGHT GO BLUE THIS
YEAR.
>> Stewart: THE DEBATE OVER
PERSONAL PRIVACY VERSUS NATIONAL
SECURITY TOOK A NEW TURN
THURSDAY WHEN THE DIRECTOR OF
THE F.B.I. CRITICIZED APPLE AND
GOOGLE FOR DEVELOPING ENCRYPTED
SMART PHONES, DEVICES, HE SAYS
WOULD ALLOW PEOPLE TO PLACE
THEMSELVES BEYOND THE LAW.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW BY JULIA ANGWIN.
SHE IS A SENIOR REPORTER AT "PRO
PUBLICA."
JULIA WHAT IS IT THESE COMPANIES
ARE DOING THAT HAS THE FBI SO
CONCERNED?
>> TO THINK ABOUT THIS THEY ARE
ALLOWING YOU TO ENCRYPT THE
EQUIVALENT OF YOUR HARD DRIVE.
YOU CAN ENCRYPT YOUR HARD DRIVE
SO YOU CAN ENCRYPT THAT.
WHAT YOU HAVE ON YOUR SMARTPHONE
WOULD BE SECURE AND NOT
AVAILABLE TO ANYBODY WHO DOESN'T
HAVE YOUR PASS CODE.
ALMOST EVERY BIT OF DATA I HAVE
ON MY SMARTPHONE MIGHT BE
DUPLICATED SOMEWHERE ELSE.
PHOTOS MIGHT BE BACKED UP ON
iCLOUD.
IF IT'S STORED SOMEWHERE ELSE IT
MOST LIKELY IS AVAILABLE TO THE
FBI.
>> WHY IS THE FBI SO UPSET?
>> THEY WANT THEIR JOB TO BE AS
EASY AS POSSIBLE.
SLIGHTLY SYMPATHETIC TOT IDEA
THAT WE WANT LAW ENFORCEMENT TO
HAVE AS MANY TOOLS AS POSSIBLE
BUT IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT A VERY SMALL
SUBSET OF THEIR DATA WHICH IS
THE PHYSICAL DEVICE.
THEY HAVE TO GET THE ACTUAL
DEVICE FROM YOU BUT IN THE END
THEY ARE GOING TO GET THAT
INFORMATION AND THEY HAVE NOT
YET PRESENTED AN ACTUAL CASE
WHERE THEY WOULD HAVE FAILED TO
COMPLETE THEIR INVESTIGATION
WITHOUT THIS INFORMATION.
>> WHAT IS ITS FOR THESE SILICON
VALLEY GIANTS TO UP THEIR GAME
ON PRIVACY AT THIS POINT?
>> IN THE POST-SNOWDEN ERA THEY
REALIZE THEY CAN USE THIS AS A
MARKETING TOOL.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME WE'VE
SEEN KIND OF A PRIVACY WAR.
APPLE CAME OUT WITH ITS
ENCRYPTED DEFAULT SETTING FOR
YOUR PHONE AND IMMEDIATELY
GOOGLE CAME OUT AND SAID WE'RE
DOING THE SAME THING.
IT WOULD BE FAIR THAT GOOGLE
OFFERED THE OPTIONS BEFORE BUT
NOT AS DEFAULT.
WE'RE SEEING IT ON CAMERA
REVOLUTION AND NOW ON PRIVACY SO
THAT MIGHT USHER IN AN ERA WHERE
PEOPLE MIGHT COMPETE ON PRIVACY
FEATURES.
>> APPLE CEO SAYING WE SELL
DEVICES NOT YOUR DATA.
>> THAT'S HIS DIFFERENTIATING
POINT.
NOT SELLING IT DIRECTLY BUT
SELLING THE ADVERTISERS THE
ABILITY TO ACCESS INFORMATION
ABOUT YOU.
YOU DON'T PAY GOOGLE ANYTHING
THE WAY I'M PAYING IT SEEMS
UNGODLY AMOUNTS TO APPLE ALL THE
TIME.
>> TELL ME A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
WHY THIS IS DIFFERENT THAN ANY
ENCRYPTION WE'VE DONE BEFORE?
>> WE'VE ALWAYS HAD THE IDEA
THAT THE INFORMATION AT HOME IS
SECURE, IF YOU WANT IT YOU ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO GET THAT DEVICE
AND BREAK INTO IT.
SO IT'S NOT THAT DIFFERENT.
BUT THE ITEMS WE CALL AROUND
WITH US, THEY GET SEIZED IN
ARRESTS AND POLICE WOULD LIKE TO
THUMB THROUGH THEM AND THEY CAN
GET ALMOST ALL THAT INFORMATION
THE OTHER WAYS.
THEY CAN GO TO THE CELL PHONE
CARRIER.
IF THEY WANT TO KNOW WHO YOU'RE
CALLING THE NSA HAS HANDY LOGS
OF ALL THAT BUT LET'S SAY THE
POLICE DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO NSA
LOGS, THEY CAN GO TO AT&T OR
VERIZON WITH A SEARCH WARRANT
AND GET IT FROM THEM.
>> JULIA ANGWIN, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> Stewart: NEXT SATURDAY, PBS
PREMIERES "AMERICA BY THE
NUMBERS WITH MARIA HINOJOSA."
THE EIGHT PART SERIES FOCUSES ON
THE DRAMATIC DEMOGRAPHIC SHIFTS
UNDERWAY THROUGHOUT THE UNITED
STATES.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT FROM ONE
EPISODE "ISLAND OF WARRIORS."
>> IT'S A PLEASURE AND HONOR TO
BE HERE ESPECIALLY AS WE LEAD UP
TO THE LIBERATION DAY
FESTIVITIES.
>> COMING FROM OUTSIDE I DON'T
THINK PEOPLE REALIZE HOW MUCH
THIS COMMUNITY RESOLVES AROUND
THE SERVICE TO THE COMMUNITY,
THE AUNTS AND UNCLES AND
BROTHERS, IT'S JUST AMAZING.
>> THE MEN AND WOMEN OF GUAM ARE
U.S. CITIZENS AND SERVING THE
AMERICAN MILITARY AT A RATE THAT
IS THREE TIMES HIGHER THAN THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY.
IN THE WARS IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN, PACIFIC ISLANDERS
HAVE THE HIGHEST RATE PER CA
CAPITA, OF PERSONAL SACRIFICE.
>> JUST AS A RESULT OF SOME
FORECAST -- FOLKS WHO HAVE PUT
ON A UNIFORM TO SACRIFICE
EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING THAT WE
ARE GOING TODAY.
>> I CAME HERE TO FIND OUT WHY
SO MANY OF GUAM'S PEOPLE HAVE
CHOSEN TO BECOME WARRIORS FOR A
COUNTRY HALF A WORLD AWAY AND
SOME SAY GET TOO LITTLE IN
RETURN.
>> ACCORDING TO GUAM'S OFFICE OF
VETERAN AFFAIRS, ONE IN EIGHT
GUAMANIANS IS A VETERAN, AMONG
THE HIGHEST IN ALL U.S. STATES
AND TERRITORIES.
BUT IN 2012, GUAM RANKED DEAD
LAST ON MEDICAL CARE SPENDING BY
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS, OR THE VA.
AT A TIME WHEN MANY ARE
RETURNING WITH PHYSICAL AND
MENTAL HEALTH CHALLENGES.
>> Stewart: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU.
IN A 60 MINUTES INTERVIEW AIRING
TONIGHT, PRESIDENT OBAMA
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT AMERICAN
INTELLIGENCE UNDERESTIMATED
ISIS BUT INSISTS HE WON'T PUT
AMERICAN TROOPS ON THE GROUND
TO FIGHT THE EXTREMISTS.
AND THE MAN KNOWN AS ISRAEL'S
JAMES BOND HAS DIED.
MICHAEL HERARI LED THE UNIT THAT
HUNTED DOWN AND KILLED THE MEN
THEY BELIEVED HAD MASSACRED
11 ISRAELIS AT THE 1972 MUNICH
OLYMPICS.
HE WAS 87.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR.
I'M ALISON STEWART, HAVE A
GOOD NIGHT.